---
layout: post
title: "What I Learned While Being A Software Engineering Intern At GEICO"
date: 2020-1-23
---

I was an IT/Software Engineering Intern at GEICO during the summer of 2019. I know that I may seem late writing about this on this website,
however, this is not my first time writing about my internship. Most of what you will see written below is what I wrote in my internship report
I had to write in order to get academic credit for my internship. I am wrting this because I wanted to give more detail about my internship
experience and what I learned during my internship experience.

During my internship I made changes and updates to web applications that were on the .Net framework and used the MVC (Model-View-Controller)
architecture. The programming languages, code libraries and component libraries that I used were JavaScript, jQuery, C# and Bootstrap. I was the
only intern at this particular GEICO corporate office.

I have learned that when you are a software developer, you need to at least partly take charge or be in charge of management of your assignment
or to the updates or changes that you are making to an application. I have learned that if you like your team members, work can be much more
enjoyable. I have enjoyed going out to eat downtown with the team, as well as eating lunch with team members at the office. Great team members
help other team members when they are having a problem or impediments with their assignments, as well as step in when there is a problem with an
application that takes more than one developer to solve. I had senior and non-senior level developers help me with understanding the process of
deployment of applications and helped me get my development environment set up. When my mentor couldn’t help me with a problem that I was having
on my assignment, he got another senior developer on my team to help me. I learned all of this by interacting with and watching my team members
interact with each other. I have learned that it is sometimes best to instant message or email your team members instead of walking over to their
cubicle because you can accidentally break their train of thought and could possibly cause them to lose track of what they were working on. If
you instant message or email them, they can respond when they can and continue to work efficiently.

Understanding fundamental object-oriented programming concepts and data structures was required during this internship. Knowing these concepts in
one programming language makes it easier to learn another programming language. Knowing how to debug, test and troubleshoot your code was key. I
had to figure out what were the files that I needed to write and where to put my code in an already existing code base. Understanding version
control, such as Git, was key. The only reason that I had an understanding of these concepts was because I have uploaded personal projects to
GitHub (like this website) before starting this internship. Knowing how to write database queries also helped.

My first assignment was only to add and change some text in an HTML file. I have been writing HMTL since I was a sophomore in high school and
HTML is a simple markup language. Even though the assignment itself was simple, the main point of the assignment was to get me used to GEICO's
development process and pushing code to Azure DevOps. The second assignment was to add a feature to one of the web applications that my team
worked on that was a simple concept, but which was definitely more complex than my first assignment. This second assignment required me to write
code in JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, and C#. Before being assigned this assignment and starting development on the update to the web
application, I only had little experience using JavaScript and C# before starting the internship. During my time at GEICO, there were some
applications that were transferring over from being hosted on-premises or “on-prem” to being hosted on Azure. The two applications that I wrote
code for and made changes to were already being hosted on Azure. When I was ready for my code to be tested, I had to commit my changes and push a
build to Azure DevOps. Your code can run fine locally and can still have problems after being uploaded to Azure DevOps. This is because there are
specific problems that only arise when an application is hosted on cloud servers. It took me until my third to last week of my internship to
understand that it is ok for a release on Azure DevOps to include earlier-made builds that failed as long as the problems in those failed builds
are solved in later builds that are also included in the release. When I was working on the development of my second assignment. I had to dig my
teeth in and learn a little about languages that I have only written a little of or have never written in before my internship.

The assignments that were given to me were oriented to front-end development. I was able to add features to web applications that were user
facing. I enjoy this aspect because I can show people something that I have made that they can understand and visualize. I learned how to work
with an actual team and was able to write code that is used on actual products. I enjoyed interacting with my team members and coworkers. I feel
like I have learned a lot just from talking to my team members and coworkers about programming, technology, etc.

I am very grateful for being given the opportunity to intern at GEICO. I learned a lot and learned new things every day while I was working there.
I cannot wait to see what my next step in my career is and take my experience from working at GEICO with me wherever I end up working next.